# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

#### Public Classes

* [`chocolatey`](#chocolatey): Used for managing installation and configuration of Chocolatey itself.
* [`chocolatey::params`](#chocolateyparams)

#### Private Classes

* `chocolatey::config`: Handles configuration of Chocolatey
* `chocolatey::install`: Handles installation of Chocolatey

### Resource types

* [`chocolateyconfig`](#chocolateyconfig): Allows managing config settings for Chocolatey. Configuration values provide settings for users to configure aspects of Chocolatey and the wa
* [`chocolateyfeature`](#chocolateyfeature): Allows managing features for Chocolatey. Features are configuration that act as feature flippers to turn on or off certain aspects of how Cho
* [`chocolateysource`](#chocolateysource): Allows managing sources for Chocolatey. A source can be a folder, a CIFS share, a NuGet Http OData feed, or a full Package Gallery. Learn mor

## Classes

### `chocolatey`

Used for managing installation and configuration of Chocolatey itself.

#### Examples

##### Default - This will by default ensure Chocolatey is installed and ready for use.

```puppet
include chocolatey
```

##### Override default install location

```puppet
class {'chocolatey':
  choco_install_location => 'D:\secured\choco',
}
```

##### Use an internal Chocolatey.nupkg for installation

```puppet
class {'chocolatey':
  chocolatey_download_url         => 'https://internalurl/to/chocolatey.nupkg',
  use_7zip                        => false,
  choco_install_timeout_seconds   => 2700,
}
```

##### Use a file chocolatey.0.9.9.9.nupkg for installation

```puppet
class {'chocolatey':
  chocolatey_download_url         => 'file:///c:/location/of/chocolatey.0.9.9.9.nupkg',
  use_7zip                        => false,
  choco_install_timeout_seconds   => 2700,
}
```

##### Log chocolatey bootstrap installer script output

```puppet
class {'chocolatey':
  log_output              => true,
}
```

##### Disable autouninstaller (use when less than 0.9.9.8)

```puppet
class {'chocolatey':
  enable_autouninstaller => false,
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `chocolatey` class.

##### `choco_install_location`

Data type: `Stdlib::Windowspath`

Where Chocolatey install should be
located. This needs to be an absolute path starting with a drive letter
e.g. `c:\`. Defaults to the currently detected install location based on
the `ChocolateyInstall` environment variable, falls back to
`'C:\ProgramData\chocolatey'`.

Default value: `$::chocolatey::params::install_location`

##### `use_7zip`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to use built-in shell or allow installer
to download 7zip to extract `chocolatey.nupkg` during installation.
Defaults to `false`.

Default value: `$::chocolatey::params::use_7zip`

##### `seven_zip_download_url`

Data type: `String`

Specifies the source file for 7za.exe.
Supports all sources supported by Puppet's file resource. You should use
a 32bit binary for compatibility.
Defaults to 'https://chocolatey.org/7za.exe'.

Default value: `$::chocolatey::params::seven_zip_download_url`

##### `choco_install_timeout_seconds`

Data type: `Integer`

How long in seconds should
be allowed for the install of Chocolatey (including .NET Framework 4 if
necessary). Defaults to `1500` (25 minutes).

Default value: `$::chocolatey::params::install_timeout_seconds`

##### `chocolatey_download_url`

Data type: `Stdlib::Filesource`

A url that will return
`chocolatey.nupkg`. This must be a url, but not necessarily an OData feed.
Any old url location will work. Defaults to
`'https://chocolatey.org/api/v2/package/chocolatey/'`.

Default value: `$::chocolatey::params::download_url`

##### `enable_autouninstaller`

Data type: `Boolean`

[Deprecated] - Should auto
uninstaller be turned on? Auto uninstaller is what allows Chocolatey to
automatically manage the uninstall of software from Programs and Features
without necessarily requiring a `chocolateyUninstall.ps1` file in the
package. Defaults to `true`. Setting is ignored in Chocolatey v0.9.10+.

Default value: `$::chocolatey::params::enable_autouninstaller`

##### `log_output`

Data type: `Boolean`

Log output from the installer. Defaults to
`false`.

Default value: ``false``

##### `chocolatey_version`

Data type: `String`

- **Informational** parameter to tell
Chocolatey what version to expect and to pre-load features with, falls
back to `$::chocolateyversion`.

Default value: `$::chocolatey::params::chocolatey_version`

##### `install_proxy`

Data type: `Any`

Proxy server to use to use for installation of chocolatey itself or
`undef` to not use a proxy

Default value: ``undef``

### `chocolatey::params`

The chocolatey::params class.

## Resource types

### `chocolateyconfig`

Allows managing config settings for Chocolatey.
Configuration values provide settings for users
to configure aspects of Chocolatey and the way it
functions. Similar to features, except allow for user
configured values. Requires 0.9.10+. Learn more about
config at https://chocolatey.org/docs/commands-config

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `chocolateyconfig` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

Specifies state of resource

Default value: `present`

##### `value`

The value of the config setting. If the
name includes 'password', then the value is
not ensurable due to being encrypted in the
configuration file.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `chocolateyconfig` type.

##### `name`

namevar

The name of the config setting. Used for uniqueness.
Puppet is not able to easily manage any values that
include Password in the key name in them as they
will be encrypted in the configuration file.

##### `provider`

The specific backend to use for this `chocolateyconfig` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will
usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

### `chocolateyfeature`

Allows managing features for Chocolatey. Features are
configuration that act as feature flippers to turn on or
off certain aspects of how Chocolatey works.
Learn more about features at
https://chocolatey.org/docs/commands-feature

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `chocolateyfeature` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `enabled`, `disabled`

Specifies state of resource

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `chocolateyfeature` type.

##### `name`

namevar

The name of the feature. Used for uniqueness.

##### `provider`

The specific backend to use for this `chocolateyfeature` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will
usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

### `chocolateysource`

Allows managing sources for Chocolatey. A source can be a
folder, a CIFS share, a NuGet Http OData feed, or a full
Package Gallery. Learn more about sources at
https://chocolatey.org/docs/how-to-host-feed

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `chocolateysource` type.

##### `admin_only`

Valid values: ``true``, ``false``

Option to specify whether this source should
visible to Windows user accounts in the Administrators
group only.

Requires Chocolatey for Business (C4B) v1.12.2+ and at
least Chocolatey v0.10.8 for the setting to be respected.
Defaults to false.

Default value: `false`

##### `allow_self_service`

Valid values: ``true``, ``false``

Option to specify whether this source should be
allowed to be used with Chocolatey Self Service.

Requires Chocolatey for Business (C4B) v1.10.0+ with the
feature useBackgroundServiceWithSelfServiceSourcesOnly
turned on in order to be respected.
Also requires at least Chocolatey v0.10.4 for the setting
to be enabled.
Defaults to false.

Default value: `false`

##### `bypass_proxy`

Valid values: ``true``, ``false``

Option to specify whether this source should
explicitly bypass any explicitly or system
configured proxies.
Requires at least Chocolatey v0.10.4.
Defaults to false.

Default value: `false`

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `disabled`, `absent`

Specifies state of resource

Default value: `present`

##### `location`

The location of the source repository. Can be a url pointing to
an OData feed (like chocolatey/chocolatey_server), a CIFS (UNC) share,
or a local folder. Required when `ensure => present` (the default for
`ensure`).

##### `priority`

Optional priority for explicit feed order when
searching for packages across multiple feeds.
The lower the number the higher the priority.
Sources with a 0 priority are considered no priority
and are added after other sources with a priority
number.
Requires at least Chocolatey v0.9.9.9.
Defaults to 0.

Default value: `0`

##### `user`

Optional user name for authenticated feeds.
Requires at least Chocolatey v0.9.9.0.
Defaults to `nil`. Specifying an empty value is the
same as setting the value to nil or not specifying
the property at all.

Default value: `''`

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `chocolateysource` type.

##### `name`

namevar

The name of the source. Used for uniqueness.

##### `password`

Optional user password for authenticated feeds.
Not ensurable. Value is not able to be checked
with current value. If you need to update the password,
update another setting as well.
Requires at least Chocolatey v0.9.9.0.
Defaults to `nil`. Specifying an empty value is the
same as setting the value to nil or not specifying
the property at all.

Default value: `''`

##### `provider`

The specific backend to use for this `chocolateysource` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will
usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

